So what are Vector's and Scalars?
Well, Vector's and Scalars actually were referred to quantities that have to deal with magnitude and
direction.
Well, actually Vector's have to do with magnitude and direction, whereas scalars just has to do with
magnitude.
By magnitude I mean the value.
So I know that this is very vague, but hopefully after an example are to actually be able to explain
this a little bit better to you.
So let's get into that.
So for example, a block has moved a distance of five meters.
That's that's the only information that we're being given here, is the magnitude magnitude is the idea
that the block is being moved a distance of five meters, which is a scalar value.
So if we were to say that the block has been displaced five meters to the right, well, that's a magnitude.
And the direction which is indicating to us that where do you want the vector?
So Provectus and Scalars that we do have Decter quantities and scale or quantities, once again, vectors
are having to deal with a magnitude and a direction where scalars only have a magnitude of value.
So like in the previous example where we were saying that we were displacing a box five meters to the
right, the displacement has a both a magnitude and a direction, whereas for the scale or quantity,
for the distance, we can actually say that we were able to move the box a distance of five meters nurser.
There's no direction there.
So these are all of our vector quantities and our scale or quantities.
If we're to actually be referring to velocity, I would have to say that we're moving at a rate or a
velocity of five meters per second in a given direction.
Now, that could that direction could be north, south, east, west, up, down, left, right.
It could be at a 45 degree angle.
We have to specify the direction.
Otherwise we could actually just be referring to the speed.
So you might be looking at these terms over here and you might have an idea that velocity and speed
relate to each other.
Speed, on the other hand, just actually has to do with the magnitude and not direction.
So five meters per second, that's a speed.
And a lot of times through physics classes as including this one, we might be actually just interchangeably
using the terms, velocity and speed.
But really technically just know the idea that velocities a vector and speed is a scalar and we should
really be saying in which direction it's going.
If we're referring to velocity and not having to specify that if we're dealing with a speed acceleration,
we could say that objects moving at two meters per second squared and that's an acceleration to the
right left, whatever the situation is, forces, I could apply a five new inforce onto an object to
the right and increase and decrease in temperature.
I want to actually decrease the temperature in my room right now.
Time.
Now what?
Is there any direction and time?
I'm reading my clock right now and it's 4:00 p.m. Is there any direction there?
Now, what about volume?
I have a 20 millilitre bottle on my desk right now.
Is there any direction in there?
No, that wouldn't make sense.
What about temperature?
Hey, currently in my room right now it's 74 degrees.
Is there any direction in that?
Now, what about mass?
Five kilogram block?
Well, there's no direction it wouldn't make sense that there would be direction there.
What about density in chemistry?
You actually deal with density a lot, but the density of an object, not how dense is it?
Well, that has nothing to do with direction.
Same thing with the energy.
If I looked up an object, maybe actually will remember this from seventh grader eighth grade science.
If I left it with an object, I'm giving it a certain amount of potential energy.
The object just has energy, it doesn't have energy in any sort of specific direction, it just has
it.